README.md, before:

# Language-Agnostic Multi-Paradigm Code Quality Assurance Framework
This git repository contains the prototype of the LAMP Framework.

### System requirements
**System libraries**:
- Graphviz (required for PlantUML)

**Intellij plugins**:
- Jakarta EE (requires IDEA Ultimate)
- PlantUML

### Terminology
- **Project**: a compilable bundle of components and/or modules without a component
- **Component**: a package containing one or more modules, or other packages
- **Module**: a class, interface, enum class or record class
- **Unit**: packet of work, meaning a function, method or lambda

### Metamodel (XML Schema)
The metamodel is created using the XML Schema Definition (XSD) language.
The metamodel XML schema is located in `src/main/resources`. 
During the development of our metamodel, we went through multiple iterations, which correspond to XSD versions (v1, v2, etc.).

Additionally, the `metamodel-bindings.xjb` file is used to define global bindings to the schema, such as the package name that will be defined for every generated class.

### Metamodel Class Diagram
![Metamodel Class Diagram](./docs/metamodel-v2-4.png)

### Code Generation (JAXB)
We use [JAXB 3.0](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/xml-binding/3.0/jakarta-xml-binding-spec-3.0.html) to generate POJOs conforming to the XSD schema.

We use the [visitor pattern](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/visitor), similar to how ANTLR handles AST traversals, to traverse the generated objects we marshal from our XML documents. 
The visitor base class is generated using the library [jaxb-visitor](https://github.com/massfords/jaxb-visitor).
Using the command `mvn jaxb30:generate`, we can generate the Metamodel classes and the Visitor base classes.

The generated metamodel code is located at `target/generated-sources/xjc/nl.utwente.student.metamodel.vN`.
The generated visitor is located at `target/generated-sources/xjc/nl.utwente.student.visitor`.

## Transformations
### Java
ANTLR Visitor code generation: 
```
antlr -o target/generated-sources/antlr4 -lib src/main/resources/grammars/java -visitor -listener -package nl.utwente.student.visitor.java -Werror
```

### Application Flow

```
(1)             Project Code                =(using)=>  Compiler API         =(outputs)=>    An Abstract Syntax Tree model per module
(2) For every:  AST model                   =(using)=>  XML schema           =(outputs)=>    Metamodel XML document
(3) For every:  Metamodel XML document      =(using)=>  JAXB Unmarshalling   =(outputs)=>    Module Metamodel instance
(4) For every:  Module Metamodel instance   =(using)=>  JAXB Visitor         =(outputs)=>    Metrics
```

### Running for Java Projects
See Example Project [here](https://github.com/MarnickvdA/LAMP-Java17.git).

Commit message:

Added README information about preliminary research

README.md, after:

# LAMP Framework 💡
### A Language-Agnostic Multi-Paradigm Code Quality Assurance Framework
This git repository contains the prototype of the LAMP Framework.
This framework is created as proof for the concepts described in my thesis written to receive my MSc grade in Computer Science from the University of Twente.
See the paper ["Language-agnostic multi-paradigm code quality assurance framework"](https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3245/) published in CEUR-WS Vol. 3245 to read about the preliminary research done to design this framework.
The final version of this framework and thesis is still a work in progress.

### System requirements
**System libraries**:
- Graphviz (required for PlantUML)

**Intellij plugins**:
- Jakarta EE (requires IDEA Ultimate)
- PlantUML

### Terminology
- **Project**: a compilable bundle of components and/or modules without a component
- **Component**: a package containing one or more modules, or other packages
- **Module**: a class, interface, enum class or record class
- **Unit**: packet of work, meaning a function, method or lambda

### Metamodel (XML Schema)
The metamodel is created using the XML Schema Definition (XSD) language.
The metamodel XML schema is located in `src/main/resources`. 
During the development of our metamodel, we went through multiple iterations, which correspond to XSD versions (v1, v2, etc.).

Additionally, the `metamodel-bindings.xjb` file is used to define global bindings to the schema, such as the package name that will be defined for every generated class.

### Metamodel Class Diagram
![Metamodel Class Diagram](./docs/metamodel-v2-4.png)

### Code Generation (JAXB)
We use [JAXB 3.0](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/xml-binding/3.0/jakarta-xml-binding-spec-3.0.html) to generate POJOs conforming to the XSD schema.

We use the [visitor pattern](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/visitor), similar to how ANTLR handles AST traversals, to traverse the generated objects we marshal from our XML documents. 
The visitor base class is generated using the library [jaxb-visitor](https://github.com/massfords/jaxb-visitor).
Using the command `mvn jaxb30:generate`, we can generate the Metamodel classes and the Visitor base classes.

The generated metamodel code is located at `target/generated-sources/xjc/nl.utwente.student.metamodel.vN`.
The generated visitor is located at `target/generated-sources/xjc/nl.utwente.student.visitor`.

## Transformations
### Java
ANTLR Visitor code generation: 
```
antlr -o target/generated-sources/antlr4 -lib src/main/resources/grammars/java -visitor -listener -package nl.utwente.student.visitor.java -Werror
```

### Application Flow

```
(1)             Project Code                =(using)=>  Compiler API         =(outputs)=>    An Abstract Syntax Tree model per module
(2) For every:  AST model                   =(using)=>  XML schema           =(outputs)=>    Metamodel XML document
(3) For every:  Metamodel XML document      =(using)=>  JAXB Unmarshalling   =(outputs)=>    Module Metamodel instance
(4) For every:  Module Metamodel instance   =(using)=>  JAXB Visitor         =(outputs)=>    Metrics
```

### Running for Java Projects
See Example Project [here](https://github.com/MarnickvdA/LAMP-Java17.git).
